TeamWork and Harmony

WHAT DOES IT TAKE TO CONQUER EVEREST?

⦁	Mount Everest - the world's highest peak - a gigantic 29,029 feet high!" The climb presents lethal dangers such as extreme temperatures, frostbite, oxygen deprivation, and avalanches! Even the most experienced of climbers have failed. It takes just one small slip to fall to your death. As of 2017, nearly 300 people have died on Everest, many of whose bodies still remain on the mountain.
⦁	In 1935, Maurice Wilson - a British mountaineer, set out to conquer Everest. He didn't have the permission of the Tibetan Government, so he snuck into Tibet from India with only three porters to carry his equipment. Once they reached North Col (22,000 ft.), Wilson's porters refused to climb any higher. Foolishly, Wilson decided to continue the climb alone - this decision killed him.
⦁	There were 7 more failed attempts to summit Mt. Everest over the course of the next 32 years. In 1953, a British group of climbers, led by John Hunt, set out to reach the peak of Everest. Hunt enlisted an experienced local, Tenzing Norgay, into the team. Norgay himself was a part of six previous Everest expeditions. He was to hire, organize and lead the porters throughout the journey. This was a difficult task because the higher the climbers wanted to go, the more team members would be needed, and as a result, a greater level of teamwork.
⦁	Tenzing hired almost 300 people just to carry the 2.5 tons of equipment and food near the mountain. From there, the supplies would be carried 180 miles through complex Himalayan terrains to the base camp. Forty experienced porters would carry supplies further up Everest. After making one more stop, only 1/3 of the most highly qualified porters would take the supplies to the next stage.
⦁	This entire group of porters were enlisted to support a core group of ten international high altitude climbers. The ten climbers split themselves into five pairs. The first pair would lead the climb, creating a path, cutting steps, and securing ropes. They would also be carrying the heavy equipment. This pair, once they had exhausted all of their energy, would pass this task onto the second pair. The second pair would carry on until they no longer could and would teamwork created an opportunity for the last two pairs to attempt at reaching the peak. One pair tried but failed. Even though they were completely fatigued and very disappointed, they willingly encouraged the final pair to make an attempt at summiting Mt. s the task onto the third pair. This selfless method of Everest. On the 29 May 1953, Tenzing Norgay and Edmund Hillary did the impossible and became the 1st to conquer Everest.

Could they have done it alone?

No! Look at the first example of Maurice Wilson - his lone attempt ended in failure and death. But when a team was created and each member selflessly played their role - only then did they master Everest.
As Helen Keller (author and activist) once said, "Alone we can do so little, together we can do so much."
This is the power of teamwork!
"You do not climb a mountain like Everest by trying to race ahead on our own,
or by competing with your comrades.
You do it slowly and carefully, by unselfish teamwork." - Tenzing Norgay






DECISION MAKING
Humans make about 35,000" decisions on a daily basis! That's an average of 24 decisions every minute!
Now, here is the real question - how often are we satisfied with our decisions? How often do we regret our choices?
When we are making so many decisions on a regular basis, we are going to make choices that we regret.
So, how can we minimize our regrets and maximize our satisfaction with our decisions? Fortunately, there is a methodology behind decision-making. If we apply some of these principles to our life, then we will be able to make better decisions.

1.IDENTIFY THE PROBLEM
What decision needs to be made? What problem are you trying to solve? This must be clear in order to make sure you are addressing the correct issue.

2. GATHER INFORMATION
Mentally or physically gather information, data, facts - whatever will help you make an informed decision. Ask yourself 'What information do I need? What do I need to know in order to make the best decision?'

3. CONSIDER YOUR OPTIONS
Most likely you will have several options. Weigh the information you've gathered and make your decision based on what outcome is most desirable to you or others involved.

4. MAKE THE DECISION
Take action on the selected option and move forward.

MAKE A DECISION!
You are looking to buy a new smartphone - which one will you purchase?
ONEPLUS 7 PRO
SAMSUNG GALAXY A7
SAMSUNG
REDMI K20 PRO


WHY IS PROJECT MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT?
You know that feeling you get, when you have too much to do in a very short amount of time and everyone is waiting on you, expecting you to produce some grand, flawless work? The anxious, worried, stressed out feeling you get in the pit of your stomach? The feeling you get when you have to complete a project and you don't even know where to start?
"Let our advance worrying become advance thinking and planning." ~Winston Churchill

Principles of project management will teach us how to plan in advance, reducing our stress and worries. We will learn these principles through a case study - The construction of Akshardham, New Delhi.


PRINCIPLES OF PROJECT MANAGEMENT
There are three Principles of Project Management as per John Storck (American Management Association -AMA). These principles are also known as the Project Management Triangle.
1. Quality of Project
What is the final output, what level of quality are we trying to achieve?
2. Time Efficiency
When are we trying to complete the project? What is the deadline?
3. Resources
What resources do we have? (human, financial, social, political, etc.);
What are our limitations?
